

Roadmap=>  Springboot3---->API/HTTP----->JDBC-Mysql
Git- Git is open source tool that  based on version control system VCS ,2005 . Git is software which runs on command line . It stores locally in your computer. 
GitHub - It is a cloud based plateform(server) that hosts git repositories.microsoft ,2008.

git commands- git init (converts working directory into repository directory).
              git status
              git add  or git add * or git add .
              git commit -m "message"
              git log (history)
              git clone "local host url"
              git clone url(on server)
              git push
git init---> git status--> git add .---> git commit -m ""---> paste url(new)/skip(once done) --->git remote -v---> git push
                  
                 





RESTAPI-Representational state transfer  



History of java: James gosling & team. Now owned by oracle.
OOPs in java : relate real world things(object)  with java programming language.
version: javac 22.0.1

Constructor is like a function that calls automatically when object assigns.
This keyword means current class. this keyword never be called in class or function.

Inheritence:

 Single inheritence - one parent and one child
multilevel inheritence - A -B -C 
Hierarchial inheritence - 
multiple [ through interfaces]
hybrid   [ through interfaces]


Interfaces - it is like todo list.means we define all methods in interface and their body must  is in class.
method overloading - same method name but different arguments.

                              
                         
Method overriding rules- must have inheritence(extends)
                         Same function name 
                         same argument pass

super keyword- when we call method inside child class to  inherit the parent class properties..


Exception Handling: unexpected results.
Try catch use to handle errors.
Finally - it runs in both cases either any exception or not.

throw-forcefully send to catch block.(intentionally mistakes)
throws-sends in catch block on occurence of errors (accidental mistakes)


JDBC drivers -javadatabase connectivity
four drivers-jdbc,native,think, network protocol driver.

MVC Architecture - Model view controller(model means database)
                    database --->servlet ----> view
Servlet runs on server.
post means sending something.
Server- a server is hardware or software that processes requests sent over a network and replies to them. a client is the device that submits a request and waits for a response from the server.
communication between two servers by the help of api.Or btween client and server.
Json-java script object notation.
JSP- java server page is used to send the data to the html and used to receive also .
                                          

